# Part 1
Welcome to the Python X-Forth tutorials! You need at least Python 3.8 for this series, let's get started!

## A bit about Forth
We'll begin with a brief overview of Forth and concatenative langauges. In a language like Python or JavaScript we often see what are called `infix` expresions or notation, wherein we find the operator sandwiched between its operands (its arguments) as in the expression `2 + 3`. In a concatenative language, of which Forth is the most well known, instead of `infix` notation we use `postfix` (after) notation also known as `reverse polish notation`. The `reverse` in `reverse polish notation` (hereafter referred to as `RPN`) refers to the reversing of `polish notation` seen in LISP, such as `(+ 2 3)` where the operator comes first, instead in `RPN` it comes last `2 3 +`. This is strange coming from other languages, but it is actually much easier to parse and for the computer to understand, in fact it is much closer to assembly language and machine code. This closeness to the machine makes Forth even easier to parse than LISP which is touted as a very easy to parse language (which can be seen in the plethora of LISP variations). 

### The stack
How does `2 3 +` work? Well every Forth program has a stack (first in last out) data structure which all values are pushed to and where all function/operators, called `words` in Forth get their arguments. So the sequence `2 3 +` becomes this series of instructions:
```
push 2
push 3
add
```

In Python it might look like this
```py
stack = []
# stack []
stack.append(2)
# stack [2]
#        ^ top
stack.append(3)
# stack [2 3]
#          ^ top

# add()
b = stack.pop() # b = 3
a = stack.pop() # a = 2
result = a + b  # result = 5
stack.append(result) 
# stack [5] - add removes the two arguments, adds them and pushes their result
#        ^ top
```
## Words
In Forth, everything except primitives are called 'words'. Operators like `+, -, *` are words and functions like `dup` and `drop` are also words. We compose pipelines of operations by using multiple words. 

With that out of the way lets write some code!

## The Tokenizer

First we'll create some Forth source for us to operate on, we'll keep it really simple and just push two numbers to the stack:

```py
# Forth source code
src = '2 3'
```

Next we'll begin the tokenizer. Tokenizers can definitely be more complicated, but for us a tokenizer is just something that takes a string of Forth code and breaks it up into the individual elements, called tokens. So in the above source code we have two tokens: 2 and 3.

Now let's actually start the tokenizer with a tokenize function. It will take in a string of source code and return a list of tokens which will just be strings.

```py
def tokenize(src):
    # remove leading and trailing whitespace
    src = src.strip()
     # the list of tokens to return
    # in X-B a token is just a string and thus tokens is a list of strings
    tokens = []
    # we will use this to build up tokens comprised of more than one char
    token = ''

    return tokens
```

Right now the function creates an empty list of tokens, a token placeholder and then returns the tokens at the end of the function. The token placeholder will be used to build up tokens that are comprised of multiple characters.

Next we want to iterate through each character in the source string and either add it to the token placeholder or in the case of a space or end of file, add the last token to the tokens list. Just below the token add the following for loop
```py
token = ''

for char in src:
    # if we get a space we want to end the last token and add it to the token list
    if char.isspace():
        # add the token to the list
        tokens.append(token)
        # reset the token to an empty string
        token = ''
```
